           GWT LICENSE INFORMATION

March 3, 2008

The GWT software and sample code developed by the GWT authors is
licensed under the Apache License, v. 2.0. Other software included in this
distribution is provided under other licenses, as listed in the Included
Software and Licenses section at the bottom of this page. Source code for
software included in this distribution is available from the GWT
project or as otherwise indicated at the bottom of this page.

Please note that the executable version of the GWT SDK
distributed by Google will communicate with Google's servers to check for
available updates. If updates are available, you will receive the option to
install them.

=====

Apache License
Version 2.0, January 2004
http://www.apache.org/licenses/ 

1. Definitions.

"License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction, and 
distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document. 

"Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by the 
copyright owner that is granting the License. 

"Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all other 
entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common control with 
that entity. For the purposes of this definition, "control" means (i) the 
power, direct or indirect, to cause the direction or management of such 
entity, whether by contract or otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent 
(50%) or more of the outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of 
such entity. 

"You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity exercising 
permissions granted by this License. 

"Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications, 
including but not limited to software source code, documentation source, and 
configuration files. 

"Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical transformation 
or translation of a Source form, including but not limited to compiled 
object code, generated documentation, and conversions to other media types. 

"Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or Object form, 
made available under the License, as indicated by a copyright notice that is 
included in or attached to the work (an example is provided in the Appendix 
below). 

"Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object form, 
that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the editorial 
revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications represent, as a 
whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes of this License, 
Derivative Works shall not include works that remain separable from, or 
merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of, the Work and Derivative 
Works thereof. 

"Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including the original 
version of the Work and any modifications or additions to that Work or 
Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally submitted to Licensor for 
inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner or by an individual or Legal 
Entity authorized to submit on behalf of the copyright owner. For the 
purposes of this definition, "submitted" means any form of electronic, 
verbal, or written communication sent to the Licensor or its 
representatives, including but not limited to communication on electronic 
mailing lists, source code control systems, and issue tracking systems that 
are managed by, or on behalf of, the Licensor for the purpose of discussing 
and improving the Work, but excluding communication that is conspicuously 
marked or otherwise designated in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a 
Contribution." 

"Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity on 
behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and subsequently 
incorporated within the Work. 

2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this 
License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, 
non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable copyright license to 
reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of, publicly display, publicly perform, 
sublicense, and distribute the Work and such Derivative Works in Source or 
Object form. 

3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this 
License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, 
non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable (except as stated in 
this section) patent license to make, have made, use, offer to sell, sell, 
import, and otherwise transfer the Work, where such license applies only to 
those patent claims licensable by such Contributor that are necessarily 
infringed by their Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their 
Contribution(s) with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. 
If You institute patent litigation against any entity (including a 
cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work or a 
Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct or contributory 
patent infringement, then any patent licenses granted to You under this 
License for that Work shall terminate as of the date such litigation is 
filed. 

4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the Work or 
Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without modifications, and 
in Source or Object form, provided that You meet the following conditions: 

a. You must give any other recipients of the Work or Derivative Works a copy 
of this License; and 

b. You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices stating that 
You changed the files; and 

c. You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works that You 
distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and attribution notices from 
the Source form of the Work, excluding those notices that do not pertain to 
any part of the Derivative Works; and 

d. If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its distribution, 
then any Derivative Works that You distribute must include a readable copy 
of the attribution notices contained within such NOTICE file, excluding 
those notices that do not pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at 
least one of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed as 
part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or documentation, if 
provided along with the Derivative Works; or, within a display generated by 
the Derivative Works, if and wherever such third-party notices normally 
appear. The contents of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only 
and do not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution notices 
within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside or as an addendum to 
the NOTICE text from the Work, provided that such additional attribution 
notices cannot be construed as modifying the License.

You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and may 
provide additional or different license terms and conditions for use, 
reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or for any such 
Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use, reproduction, and 
distribution of the Work otherwise complies with the conditions stated in 
this License. 

5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise, any 
Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work by You to the 
Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of this License, without 
any additional terms or conditions. Notwithstanding the above, nothing 
herein shall supersede or modify the terms of any separate license agreement 
you may have executed with Licensor regarding such Contributions. 

6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade 
names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor, except 
as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the origin of the 
Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file. 

7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in 
writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each Contributor provides its 
Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY 
KIND, either express or implied, including, without limitation, any 
warranties or conditions of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or 
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining 
the appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any risks 
associated with Your exercise of permissions under this License. 

8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory, whether 
in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise, unless required by 
applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly negligent acts) or agreed to 
in writing, shall any Contributor be liable to You for damages, including 
any direct, indirect, special, incidental, or consequential damages of any 
character arising as a result of this License or out of the use or inability 
to use the Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill, 
work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all other 
commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor has been advised of 
the possibility of such damages. 

9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing the Work 
or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer, and charge a fee for, 
acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity, or other liability obligations 
and/or rights consistent with this License. However, in accepting such 
obligations, You may act only on Your own behalf and on Your sole 
responsibility, not on behalf of any other Contributor, and only if You 
agree to indemnify, defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any 
liability incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by 
reason of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability. 

===

LICENSE INFORMATION REGARDING BUNDLED THIRD-PARTY SOFTWARE

The following third party software is distributed with GWT
and is provided under other licenses and/or has source 
available from other locations. Where "gwt-dev.jar" is listed, 
substitute in the name of the jar corresponding to your platform, 
e.g. "gwt-dev-linux.jar".

* Apache Tomcat
  License: Apache License v. 2.0 (above)
  Source code availability: http://tomcat.apache.org
    modifications are at org/apache/tomcat/ within gwt-dev.jar

* Apache Tapestry
  License: Apache License v. 2.0 (above)
  Source code availability: http://tapestry.apache.org

* ASM 3.1
  License: (custom)
    http://asm.objectweb.org/license.html
  Source code availability: com/google/gwt/dev/asm/ within gwt-dev.jar
  
* Eclipse Java Development Tools (JDT)
  License: Eclipse Public License v. 1.0 
    http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html
  Source code availability:
    http://archive.eclipse.org/eclipse/downloads/drops/R-3.3.1-200709211145/download.php?dropFile=eclipse-JDT-SDK-3.3.1.zip

* Eclipse Standard Widget Toolkit (SWT)
  License: Eclipse Public License v. 1.0
    http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html
  Source code availability:
    Linux: http://download.eclipse.org/eclipse/downloads/drops/R-3.2.1-200609210945/download.php?dropFile=swt-3.2.1-gtk-linux-x86.zip
    Windows: http://download.eclipse.org/eclipse/downloads/drops/R-3.2.1-200609210945/download.php?dropFile=swt-3.2.1-win32-win32-x86.zip
    Mac: http://download.eclipse.org/eclipse/downloads/drops/R-3.2.1-200609210945/download.php?dropFile=swt-3.2.1-carbon-macosx.zip
    modifications are at org/eclipse/swt/ within gwt-dev.jar

* Jetty
  License: Apache License v. 2.0 (above)
  Source code availability:
    http://mortbay.org/jetty/

* Mozilla Rhino
  License: Mozilla Public License v. 1.1
    http://www.mozilla.org/MPL/MPL-1.1.txt
  Source code availability: com/google/gwt/dev/js/rhino/ within gwt-dev.jar

* Mozilla 1.7.12 (Linux only)
  License: Mozilla Public License v. 1.1
    http://www.mozilla.org/MPL/MPL-1.1.txt
  Source code availability: 
    http://developer.mozilla.org/en/docs/Download_Mozilla_Source_Code

* Protobuf
  License: New BSD License
    http://www.opensource.org/licenses/bsd-license.php
  Source code availablility:
    http://code.google.com/p/protobuf/source/checkout
  Binary modifications consist of package-rebasing. The rebased classes are rooted at com/google/gwt/dev/protobuf/ within gwt-dev.jar
